Cambridge has two related schools named after Dr. King which are sometimes confused by new parents. One is called King Open, and the other is called MLK (or MLK, Jr, or King). This article is about the King Open school. To add to the confusion, both schools have two tracks. MLK has a Chinese Immersion track, and a non-immersion track (with the **non-immersion** confused called nihao!), while King Open has a highly-regarded Portuguese immersion track, Ola. 

To clear up the confusion, and add a bit of history, the Cambridge School District originally had just one school named after Martin Luther King. At the time, Graham and Parks was an extremely progressive, open, and oversubscribed school (you can read [its story](http://www.nonpartisaneducation.org/Review/Testimonials/v10n2.htm)). Parents looking for a similar model opened up an open classroom pilot at the MLK school. For many years, the school had two programs: mainstream and King Open. Eventually, with frictions between the two tracks, King Open split off into its own school, while MLK kept a more traditional education model (which it still follows today). Both schools created immersion language tracks: Ola Portuguese Immersion at King Open and many years later, Chinese Immersion at MLK. The Ola program is extremely strong, but due to the lower popularity of the language, remains probably the only magnet program in the district which parents can get into without sibling, language, or 3-year-old priority. 

So on a school lottery sheet, you will see four different choices in schools named King. Make sure you pick the right one!

King Open is in a temporary location while the school is being rebuilt. It is currently in a run-down building at 359 Broadway, but will move to a brand-new state-of-the-art facility at 850 Cambridge St. as soon as the new building is finished, probably in a year. This building will probably be the nicest in the district, being both new and having large sports fields.

King Open is in the MIT-Central area, moving to MIT-Lechmere. The MIT area, which has *many* schools and not as many families, so like all other schools in this area, King Open tends to be pretty undersubscribed. If you list it first (either track), you'll probably get in.